Meme-Generator Project README.md

Udacity Intermediate Python Course
This project is based on use of large-scale systems for users interaction. Where you learn to use open source libraries and add functionality to code and package code in libraries. In this project users will interact with the project in a command line tool and a web server that is a multimedia application generator of memes. The meme image generates a quote.

Application Overview:
•	Data file has a DogQuotes file, SimpleLines file, and photos of dogs
•	Quote files has different filetypes PDF, Word Documents, CSV, Text files
•	The application has input through the command-line interface with the Flask Application web service
•	The flask server consumes the modules and turns them useable through the web interface through the app.py
•	The template file contains the HTML templates
Application Modules

QuoteEngine - this module ingests many types of files with quotes. The abstract class is the IngestorInterface class. This class defines two class methods: def can_ ingest and def parse.  Which uses objects in the helper classes, for each type of quote file. The QuoteModel class stores the message body quote, along with the message author. Once the quotes are parsed from different file types it utilizes  the helper class. System is designed to extract each quote line by line.

Helper classes - are the CSVIngesor, TXTIngestor, PDFIngestor, DocxIngestor files. The objects realize the Ingestor-Interface for each file type. Both the Ingestor and Ingestor-Interface abstruct base class encapsulate the helper classes.  

MemeEngine - this class loads the image using the Pillow (PIL) and resizes to a width of 500px pixels to maintain the height and scale of the aspect ratio. This class uses the instance method to return the path to the image in:  make_meme(self, img_path, text, author, width=500)  str The quote, message body and author are added to image. Each manipulated image file is finally saved and added as an output file in final form of a meme. 

Applications 

Meme.py
This file can be run from the command line and takes three arguments –body a string quote, -- author a string from author,--path an image path. To generate images the modules Quote Engine and Meme Engine are used.  Selections are Random and are selected from the dataset folder. 
 
App.py
The app.py script uses the Quote Module and Meme Generator Modules to generate random images with quotes. It uses the request packages to fetch the image that’s submitted from the URL. 
This script has the main code for the flask server. The server consumes the modules and makes them useable through the flask server

Output files

Output images are generated by running the scripts app.py and meme.py and get stored in the tmp folder from the command line terminal when running the meme.py file.
Static stores the output of the images generated from the web server when the app.py file is run.

Requirements.txt contains the list of python dependencies that are used to create and run this project.

Setup:

Install dependencies

Starting the flask server at prompt:
	Python app.py flask run
	Returns:
	* Serving Flask app ‘app’
	* Debug mode: on
	Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000
	Press CTL+C to quit
	* Restarting with stat
	* Debugger is active!
	* Debugger Pin: 672-969-784
Random memes are generated and custom memes can also be generated by clicking 'Create'




